docs/DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Configuration and Management

## Architecture Overview

Youtarr uses Docker Compose with two containers:
- **youtarr**: Main application container (Node.js/React)
- **youtarr-db**: MariaDB database container

## Container Details

### Application Container (youtarr)
- **Image**: `dialmaster/youtarr:latest`
- **Exposed Ports**:
  - 3087 → 3011 (Web interface + WebSocket)
- **Volumes**:
  - `${YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR}:/usr/src/app/data` - Videos directory
  - `./server/images:/app/server/images` - Thumbnails/cache
  - `./config:/app/config` - Configuration files
  - `./jobs:/app/jobs` - Job state and artifacts
  - `./migrations:/app/migrations` - DB migrations

### Database Container (youtarr-db)
- **Image**: `mariadb:10.3`
- **Port**: 3321 (both host and container)
- **Volumes**:
  - `youtarr_db_data:/var/lib/mysql` - Database persistence
- **Character Set**: utf8mb4 (full Unicode support)

## Docker Commands

### Starting and Stopping

```bash
# Start containers
./start.sh

# Stop containers
./stop.sh

# View status
docker compose ps
```

### Viewing Logs

```bash
# All containers
docker compose logs -f

# Specific container
docker compose logs -f youtarr
docker compose logs -f youtarr-db

# Last 100 lines
docker compose logs --tail=100
```

### Container Management

```bash
# Restart containers
docker compose restart

# Rebuild containers (after image updates)
docker compose up -d --build

# Remove containers (preserves data)
docker compose down

# Remove containers AND volumes (WARNING: deletes data)
docker compose down -v
```

### Accessing Container Shell

```bash
# Application container
docker exec -it youtarr bash

# Database container
docker exec -it youtarr-db bash

# Direct database access
docker exec -it youtarr-db mysql -u root -p123qweasd youtarr
```

## Environment Variables

Set in docker-compose.yml:

```yaml
environment:
  - IN_DOCKER_CONTAINER=1
  - DB_HOST=youtarr-db
  - DB_PORT=3321
  - DB_USER=root
  - DB_PASSWORD=123qweasd
  - DB_NAME=youtarr
  - YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR=${YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR}
```

## Volume Management

### Persistent Data Locations

- **Database**: Docker volume `youtarr_db_data`
- **Config**: `./config` directory
- **Videos**: User-specified directory (set via setup.sh)
- **Images/Jobs**: `./server/images` and `./jobs` directories

### Backup and Restore

**Backup database**:
```bash
docker exec youtarr-db mysqldump -u root -p123qweasd youtarr > backup.sql
```

**Restore database**:
```bash
docker exec -i youtarr-db mysql -u root -p123qweasd youtarr < backup.sql
```

**Backup all data**:
```bash
# Stop containers first
./stop.sh

# Create backup
tar -czf youtarr-backup.tar.gz config/ database/ jobs/ server/images/

# Include database volume
docker run --rm -v youtarr_db_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine tar -czf /backup/db-backup.tar.gz -C /data .
```

## Health Checks

The application container includes health checks:
- Checks database connectivity before starting
- Retries on failure with exponential backoff
- Maximum 30 retry attempts

## Network Configuration

- Internal network: `youtarr-network`
- Container communication uses internal hostnames
- External access through mapped ports

### Plex Server Communication

When running in Docker, use these addresses for Plex:
- `host.docker.internal` - Recommended for Docker Desktop
- Host machine's IP address - For Docker Engine on Linux

## Upgrading

### From Single Container to Compose (v1.15.0+)

If upgrading from older single-container setup:

1. Stop old container:
   ```bash
   docker stop youtarr
   docker rm youtarr
   ```

2. Pull latest code:
   ```bash
   git pull
   ```

3. Start with new setup:
   ```bash
   ./start.sh
   ```

Your database in `./database` directory is automatically migrated.

### Updating to Latest Version

```bash
# Stop containers
./stop.sh

# Pull latest images
docker compose pull

# Start with new images
./start.sh
```

## Performance Tuning

### Memory Limits

Add to docker-compose.yml if needed:
```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    mem_limit: 2g
    mem_reservation: 1g
```

### CPU Limits

```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    cpus: '2.0'
```

## Common Docker Issues

### Disk Space

Check available space:
```bash
docker system df
```

Clean up unused resources:
```bash
docker system prune -a
```

### Permission Issues

If videos aren't accessible:
1. Check directory permissions
2. Ensure Docker has access to the directory
3. On Linux, may need to adjust user/group IDs

### Port Conflicts

If ports are already in use:
1. Check what's using the port:
   ```bash
   netstat -tulpn | grep 3087
   ```

2. Either stop the conflicting service or change Youtarr's ports in docker-compose.yml

## Docker Compose Version

The start/stop scripts automatically detect your Docker Compose version:
- `docker compose` (v2) - Recommended
- `docker-compose` (v1) - Legacy support

To check your version:
```bash
docker compose version
# or
docker-compose version
```

## Security Considerations

### Database Password

Default password is `123qweasd`. To change:

1. Update in docker-compose.yml:
   ```yaml
   DB_PASSWORD=your_new_password
   MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=your_new_password
   ```

2. Rebuild database container:
   ```bash
   ./stop.sh
   docker compose down -v  # WARNING: Deletes data
   ./start.sh
   ```

### Network Isolation

Containers communicate on isolated network. External access only through explicitly mapped ports.

### Running as Non-Root

For enhanced security on Linux, configure user in docker-compose.yml:
```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    user: "1000:1000"
```

## Development with Docker

See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for running Youtarr in development mode with Docker.

Commit message:

feat: add configurable storage path for Kubernetes/Elfhosted platforms
Add DATA_PATH environment variable to allow custom video storage paths inside
containers. Enables deployment on platforms like Elfhosted where paths must
be consistent across all pods. Maintains full backward compatibility with
existing Docker deployments.

- Add DATA_PATH env var support with fallback to /usr/src/app/data
- Update Docker Compose files with configuration examples
- Add comprehensive test coverage for new functionality
- Document feature in README and Docker guide

docs/DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Configuration and Management

## Architecture Overview

Youtarr uses Docker Compose with two containers:
- **youtarr**: Main application container (Node.js/React)
- **youtarr-db**: MariaDB database container

## Container Details

### Application Container (youtarr)
- **Image**: `dialmaster/youtarr:latest`
- **Exposed Ports**:
  - 3087 → 3011 (Web interface + WebSocket)
- **Volumes**:
  - `${YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR}:/usr/src/app/data` - Videos directory
  - `./server/images:/app/server/images` - Thumbnails/cache
  - `./config:/app/config` - Configuration files
  - `./jobs:/app/jobs` - Job state and artifacts
  - `./migrations:/app/migrations` - DB migrations

### Database Container (youtarr-db)
- **Image**: `mariadb:10.3`
- **Port**: 3321 (both host and container)
- **Volumes**:
  - `youtarr_db_data:/var/lib/mysql` - Database persistence
- **Character Set**: utf8mb4 (full Unicode support)

## Docker Commands

### Starting and Stopping

```bash
# Start containers
./start.sh

# Stop containers
./stop.sh

# View status
docker compose ps
```

### Viewing Logs

```bash
# All containers
docker compose logs -f

# Specific container
docker compose logs -f youtarr
docker compose logs -f youtarr-db

# Last 100 lines
docker compose logs --tail=100
```

### Container Management

```bash
# Restart containers
docker compose restart

# Rebuild containers (after image updates)
docker compose up -d --build

# Remove containers (preserves data)
docker compose down

# Remove containers AND volumes (WARNING: deletes data)
docker compose down -v
```

### Accessing Container Shell

```bash
# Application container
docker exec -it youtarr bash

# Database container
docker exec -it youtarr-db bash

# Direct database access
docker exec -it youtarr-db mysql -u root -p123qweasd youtarr
```

## Environment Variables

Set in docker-compose.yml:

```yaml
environment:
  - IN_DOCKER_CONTAINER=1
  - DB_HOST=youtarr-db
  - DB_PORT=3321
  - DB_USER=root
  - DB_PASSWORD=123qweasd
  - DB_NAME=youtarr
  - YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR=${YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR}
  # Optional: Custom data path (for Elfhosted or similar platforms)
  # - DATA_PATH=/storage/rclone/storagebox/youtube
```

### DATA_PATH Configuration (Advanced)

The `DATA_PATH` environment variable allows customization of the video storage path **inside** the container. This is primarily for platforms like Elfhosted where paths must be consistent across all pods.

- **Default**: `/usr/src/app/data` (standard Docker setup)
- **Use case**: Platforms that mount storage at a lower level and need consistent paths across services
- **Example**: `DATA_PATH=/storage/rclone/storagebox/youtube`

**Note**: For standard Docker deployments, you don't need this. Use volume mounts instead (`${YOUTUBE_OUTPUT_DIR}:/usr/src/app/data`).

## Volume Management

### Persistent Data Locations

- **Database**: Docker volume `youtarr_db_data`
- **Config**: `./config` directory
- **Videos**: User-specified directory (set via setup.sh)
- **Images/Jobs**: `./server/images` and `./jobs` directories

### Backup and Restore

**Backup database**:
```bash
docker exec youtarr-db mysqldump -u root -p123qweasd youtarr > backup.sql
```

**Restore database**:
```bash
docker exec -i youtarr-db mysql -u root -p123qweasd youtarr < backup.sql
```

**Backup all data**:
```bash
# Stop containers first
./stop.sh

# Create backup
tar -czf youtarr-backup.tar.gz config/ database/ jobs/ server/images/

# Include database volume
docker run --rm -v youtarr_db_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine tar -czf /backup/db-backup.tar.gz -C /data .
```

## Health Checks

The application container includes health checks:
- Checks database connectivity before starting
- Retries on failure with exponential backoff
- Maximum 30 retry attempts

## Network Configuration

- Internal network: `youtarr-network`
- Container communication uses internal hostnames
- External access through mapped ports

### Plex Server Communication

When running in Docker, use these addresses for Plex:
- `host.docker.internal` - Recommended for Docker Desktop
- Host machine's IP address - For Docker Engine on Linux

## Upgrading

### From Single Container to Compose (v1.15.0+)

If upgrading from older single-container setup:

1. Stop old container:
   ```bash
   docker stop youtarr
   docker rm youtarr
   ```

2. Pull latest code:
   ```bash
   git pull
   ```

3. Start with new setup:
   ```bash
   ./start.sh
   ```

Your database in `./database` directory is automatically migrated.

### Updating to Latest Version

```bash
# Stop containers
./stop.sh

# Pull latest images
docker compose pull

# Start with new images
./start.sh
```

## Performance Tuning

### Memory Limits

Add to docker-compose.yml if needed:
```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    mem_limit: 2g
    mem_reservation: 1g
```

### CPU Limits

```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    cpus: '2.0'
```

## Common Docker Issues

### Disk Space

Check available space:
```bash
docker system df
```

Clean up unused resources:
```bash
docker system prune -a
```

### Permission Issues

If videos aren't accessible:
1. Check directory permissions
2. Ensure Docker has access to the directory
3. On Linux, may need to adjust user/group IDs

### Port Conflicts

If ports are already in use:
1. Check what's using the port:
   ```bash
   netstat -tulpn | grep 3087
   ```

2. Either stop the conflicting service or change Youtarr's ports in docker-compose.yml

## Docker Compose Version

The start/stop scripts automatically detect your Docker Compose version:
- `docker compose` (v2) - Recommended
- `docker-compose` (v1) - Legacy support

To check your version:
```bash
docker compose version
# or
docker-compose version
```

## Security Considerations

### Database Password

Default password is `123qweasd`. To change:

1. Update in docker-compose.yml:
   ```yaml
   DB_PASSWORD=your_new_password
   MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=your_new_password
   ```

2. Rebuild database container:
   ```bash
   ./stop.sh
   docker compose down -v  # WARNING: Deletes data
   ./start.sh
   ```

### Network Isolation

Containers communicate on isolated network. External access only through explicitly mapped ports.

### Running as Non-Root

For enhanced security on Linux, configure user in docker-compose.yml:
```yaml
services:
  youtarr:
    user: "1000:1000"
```

## Development with Docker

See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for running Youtarr in development mode with Docker.
